Star TV Interview, Istanbul, Turkey,  01.04.1999
Correspondent: They are picked from a garden, not bought from the florist.
Shri Mataji: Thank you, very kind of you. What‘s the name?
What’s the name of these flowers?
Interviewer: I don’t know.
Shri Mataji: Thank you very much,
thank you. Please sit down.
Correspondent:  Here, the atmosphere here is talismanic
as feeling like inside a fanus,
for maybe this is psychologic or
the natural ambiance of the environment.
I feel like feeling a different kind of peace.
Shri Mataji: very good, absolutely good idea.
Correspondent: I wonder where Madame is coming from either
the depths of Indian Ocean or pinnacles of Himalayas.
Shri Mataji: I am from the centre of India.
Just,  on the Tropic of Cancer, you see, tropic of cancer.
Mecca is also on the Tropic of Cancer.
Shri Mataji: What is you call the Equator?
And above that 23 and a half degrees is called as the ...
Correspondent: In fact I intend to make a compliment.
As She is very deep and a person in heights,
I would like to compliment as  how deep She is,
how developed her inner being
and how She is sitting ever highest peaks.
Shri Mataji: That’s true.
India has a very deep culture,
very deep spiritual culture.
As you had Sufis here,
we had many saints in our country.
Correspondent: What is the content of sorrow and patience?
Indeed, how sorrow and patience is described in this context?
Shri Mataji: It comes out of ignorance.
Because of ignorance and you are so much involved in the worldly life, you see,
that’s why you feel the suffering.
But if you can rise above that,
you don’t feel the sufferings at all.
Yogini: After these modern times, with the technology ,
people are getting more and more far
from inside and from God
and they are not connected.
Shri Mataji: They feel the suffering of
these modern times much more.
Correspondent: There are coincidences in life
important coincidences,
are these coincidences in fact messages
for human beings?
Shri Mataji: Of course, of course.
They are messages.
They are messages for us, to guide.
Yogini: Do You mean when people get these messages
then they can go on the direction to the God,
to be closer and closer if they get  the signs rightness?
Shri Mataji: Especially if they get the desire –
the desire to know why all these problems…
Desire to know the truth, you see.
When that starts coming up
then you take to the path of seeking.
Yogini: God is always inside us,
but the distance between God and us
Its up to  what we do in our life.
Is that right?
Shri Mataji: Yes, Because you cannot
feel your spirit, that’s why.
If you can feel your self,
if you know yourself,
then you are absolutely close to God Almighty.
Correspondent : Then in reality worshipping is
when a person set forth  from his/her house,
is his/her conducts towards human beings,
attitude towards life,
when arriving at home praying with open palms
he opens his hands and says prayer, actually,
in fact the whole daily life is worshipping
to the God. Is it not?
Shri Mataji: [That] is true,
but your heart must be clean.
If your heart is not clean
and if you are just praying to God,
God knows everything.
Correspondent: We have to know that God knows.
Human beings must feel that
they are all the time under Gods governance.
Shri Mataji: Yes, He knows everything
about us and He loves us.
God loves us very much,
He guides us.
But if we do not want to listen to Him
and want to listen to our own whims,
then He says, “All right. Go ahead.”
Correspondent: Does Madame likes to watch movies?
Yogini: Do You like to watch movies, film?
Shri Mataji: Sometimes. Yes, I do, if they are good.
Correspondent: For instance,
did she watch the “Titanic” movie?
Shri Mataji: I did. I did.
Correspondent: I would like
to tell about a coincidence by the way,
it was a film but a film that reflect the reality.
As you know Titanic sank and there were two lovers.
At that time, Rose was on the raft on ocean.
Yogini : From the movie Titanic,
he was very impressed for one part
when the Titanic was under the water,
they were just holding some wooden sticks and so on,
but it was very cold in the night
while he was in the water and girl was sitting on it
and in the morning time boy was frozen
and then, until that time they couldn’t
make other people hear that they need help.
At the end, just at last moment,
just from the near, at that moment they could hear
that she was a live, there is just
one person who is alive.
Is this a blessing from God?
Shri Mataji: Everything is a blessing from God
And, you see, the way we pay more attention
to things which are not important –
then you suffer also.
Correspondent: Did you commit a sin ever?
Yogini: Have You ever made sin?
Yogi: Sin, have You ever sinned?
Shri Mataji: I can’t, very difficult.
Correspondent :  I apoligise asking
a question like this
but all of us are beings created by God.
Sometimes it may happen that we commit sins.
Audience may wonder thats why I ask.
Shri Mataji: I have not. I mean,
from the worldly point of view, maybe.
But from God’s point of view, not.
Correspondent: How She evaluates football?
Is there any team that She supports in any  country?
Shri Mataji:I never support any team, anywhere,
because if you support, you cannot enjoy.
You must keep a balance,
When both parties are different things
I can never take sides.
Correspondent: I heard a sentence in a song,
a singer said so,
there is Armenian, Greek, Muslim, Christian
but the rain falling above us, wets all of us.
Shri Mataji: They are all equal.
This is all a man-made difference;
God has not made that.
Because the thing that works out your realization
is the Kundalini, is in all of you.
Correspondent:  We are all one for God
but with our attitudes I am little away from God
or I am a little closer to you or I am far away.
We determine our proximity to God in fact.
God is in equal distance to all of us.
Shri Mataji: That’s right. In a garden
you have all kinds of flowers
but they grow out of the same Mother Earth, you see.
So there is no difference at all.
But in their own variety…
To create a variety, the beauty of variety,
there are different flowers.
Yogini: Some black, some pink,
some of them pink, black, red,
different diffrent colours, the humans…
Shri Mataji: Yes, that’s what it is.
We are like that also.
There is no difference of each.
They are all flowers.
In the same way, we are all
human beings – there is no difference.
there is no difference.
Correspondent: Sorry, Does the humans are
establishing tomorrow with the actions of today?
Shri Mataji: They are.
They are looking for,
lots of people are looking
for truth or looking for reality, no doubt.
Yogini: Whatever we do in this life
also affects the future. Our children and other…
Shri Mataji: Whole society.
Correspondent : Which kind of music
Madame listens to?
Now I am hearing a tune,
this is probably Indian Music.
Shri Mataji: Every kind. I like Mozart.
I like Vivaldi, I like every kind of music.
Music is more beautiful, you see.
There are different kinds, that’s all.
I don’t like very loud ones.
That breaks my ear.
Yogini: Actually, he says the music
should enter from the ear to the heart.
some of the music are just remaining in the ears,
Shri Mataji: No, no.
Yogini: not going to heart.
Shri Mataji: It blasts your heart.
Shri Mataji: blast, blast your heart
Yogini: What is Your message for the human beings?
Shri Mataji: Message is that all of you
have within yourself a Power,
in the triangular bone known as Sacrum,
which is responsible for your further evolution.
And this gives you a new awareness within you.
When it is awakened,
you get collectively conscious.
Kundalini is like a connection you have.
You have to be connected to the Divine Power of Love,
which is Ruh.
Yogini: Can we say for your... for Sahaja Yoga
it is the answer and the meaning of everything?
Shri Mataji: Of course. Of course
that’s the solution.
Because all problems are because of
human beings who are ignorant.
Once they become one with the Divine,
all problems are solved.
Correspondent: Does Madame likes
Turkish dishes, except those ones
or does She likes these ones?
What kind of food does She eats?
Yogini: He would like to ask
what do You like to eat in Turkey.
Normally, he says all the foreigners
they  like to eat Doner Shish Kebab.
Shri Mataji: I like all kinds of Turkish food
is the best, I think, in the whole world.
Yogini: He says it is not up to us to obtain the timing
when and how everything should happen.
There is a power who does everything.
In his life until he was 45,
everything was very difficult,
struggling on the ground he says.
and after When he was 45,
he felt that something was changed.
And he says in his new life,
this moment,  the moment when he meets You
is the most special moment.
This is a blessing from God.
and that’s why he is thanking to you.
Shri Mataji: Thank you very much.
Thank you very much to think like that.
To me also, this is a great pleasure
to meet you
because he is a very sensitive person.
Yogini : Sit comfortably. Are you comfortable?
Shri Mataji: When you feel the cool breeze
Yogini : Admit when you feel the cool breeze in your hands?
Correspondent: Cool breeze?
Yogini: Breeze of the Sprit.
This is the breeze of the Sprit.
Correspondent: Breeze of Spirit?
Yogini : Yes, Spirit.
Correspondent:  Feels on hands?
Shri Mataji: ...to the divine power.
Yogini : Divine power.
You can feel it at top of your head at the same time.
Interviewer : Yes. I feel it very strongly.
Yogini: Very strongly he feels the breeze on his head.
Yogini: Very strongly he feels.
Shri Mataji: This is the all-pervading power of Divine Love.
Yogini : Other peoples Kundalini also can be awaken.
Correspondent: Was that fast?
Shri Mataji: This is the triangular bone
(showing him on the Sahaj booklet)
It raises through these six centers.
Ultimately it pierces this sixth center
and then you felt it.
Shri Mataji: You can have this and you can feel it.
Correspondent: Will you sign this?
Shri Mataji: All right.
Yogini : It writes “ With my love
and blessings. Mataji Nirmala Devi.”
Mataji Nirmala Devi, yazıyor.
Correspondent: I will carry on my heart.
Yogini: Atatürk. Atatürk is regarded
an enlightened sprit.
Yogini: He is asking if the cameraman
can also get his realization.
Shri Mataji: his self-realization.
Yogini : Yes.
Shri Mataji: Yes, why not.
He is carrying something heavy on his shoulder.
Can he keep it down for a while?
Shri Mataji: (explaining a miracle photograph):
That was [taken] on a boat, on a ride.
That is the day, the 5th of May it was.
Shri Mataji: There were all people sitting here around Me.
Shri Mataji: That was the day -long time
back – was the 5th of May 1970 –
when the Sahasrara was opened
in India.
Shri Mataji: This  happened much later.
We were in [UNCLEAR]  and we were going by boat.
Shri Mataji: At that same time this photo came.
Yogini: The 5th of May?
Shri Mataji: Yes, [the] 5th of May.
But 10 years later.
Yogini: There are a lot of people sitting around You?
Shri Mataji: Yes, but you can’t see them.
They have all disappeared on the sides.
Shri Mataji: This is the last photograph.
but there are other
which show people first
and gradually they disappear.
Shri Mataji: Now this is another one.
With the white saree, standing in the sea.
And this light appeared in the heart,
on My heart.
Shri Mataji: There are thousands of photographs,
Thousands of them.
Shri Mataji: My whole face was covered with the light.
Very strong light
But the flowers are all right there,
nothing happens to them.